Rewrite "rock paper scissors" project (#26037)
TheOdinProject/curriculum: foundations/javascript_basics/project_rock_paper_scissors.md

### Introduction

In this project, we'll create a simple implementation of the classic grade-school game "rock paper scissors". If you're unfamiliar with this game, check out this [Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock%E2%80%93paper%E2%80%93scissors) or this [detailed step-by-step guide](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Rock,-Paper,-Scissors).

> We'll start by playing the game entirely from the browser console. Later on, **we'll revisit this project to add a Graphical User Interface (GUI) with buttons and text**. So don't forget to save the code on GitHub! Some student solutions below might already have a GUI, but we'll cover that in a later lesson. Let's get started with a few quick exercises before we start the project!

Author: I'll see what I can do with the note box.

 I guess **push** would be the more appropriate word. I'm okay with either, though.

> We'll start by playing the game entirely from the browser console. Later on, **we'll revisit this project to add a Graphical User Interface (GUI) with buttons and text**. So don't forget to save the code on GitHub! Some student solutions below might already have a GUI, but we'll cover that in a later lesson. Let's get started with a few quick exercises before we start the project!

Reviewer: I like `push` for I feel it's more common than `saving to GH`, Or perhaps we `store` remote. I'm not sure. I don't feel strongly about it and will leave it up to you :)

1. Start a new Git repository for your project.
2. Create a blank HTML document with a script tag.
    - **Tip**: We highly recommend writing the code in an external JavaScript file and linking it to the HTML file. This game is played entirely from the console, so don't worry about writing anything else in the HTML file.
3. Your game is going to play against the computer, so begin writing a new function called `getComputerChoice` that will randomly return either `"Rock"`, `"Paper"`, or `"Scissors"`. We'll use this function to make the computer play.
    - **Tip**: Use the console to make sure this returns the expected output before moving to the next step!
4. Write a new function called `playRound` that plays a single round of Rock Paper Scissors. This `playRound` function should have two parameters: `playerSelection` and `computerSelection`, both taking string arguments. Then, return a string that declares the winner of the round, like so: `"You Lose! Paper beats Rock"`
    *   Make sure your `playerSelection` parameter is case-insensitive so that users can input `rock`, `ROCK`, `RocK`, or any other variation.

>    -  **Important note:** you want to `return` the results of `playRound` call, *not* `console.log` them. You're going to use what you `return` later on, so let's test this function by using console.log to see the results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Let's test this function by using `console.log` to see the results
   - **Important note:** later on, you want to `return` the results of the `playRound` function, *not* `console.log` them. However, for now you will be using `console.log` to test the results of the function.
```
- keep the numbering but add a note since this is a step in the assignment still where the learner is expected to add `console.log`s
- Whatever we decide, let's add consistent backticks around `console.log` to be in line with the previous line 

I made some edits for this section has always felt kind of "off" to me. To me this sounds like: 
>*"We want to `return`, so let's go ahead and `console.log`"*

What do you think of these changes? They're not set in stone, just a draft change I made for you to judge.

Author: I think it would be better to `return` the result right at the start, never `console.log`.

We can then use `console.log` on the function call to check its output as: 

`console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection))`

Reviewer: You're absolutely right! I misinterpreted that wrongly all the time and hence why it always sounded "off" to me to mention we should return but then console.log. Now it makes sense, it only took me a year!

      ~~~javascript
      function playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection) {
        // your code here!
      }
 
      const playerSelection = "rock";
      const computerSelection = getComputerChoice();
      console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection));
      ~~~

5. Write a new function called `game` that plays a 5 round game, keeps the game's score, and reports a winner or loser at the end. Use the previous function *inside* this `game` function.

>     *   You have not officially learned how to "loop" over code to repeat function calls... If you already know about loops from somewhere else or feel like learning more, feel free to use them. If not, don't worry! Just call your `playRound` function 5 times in a row. In the next lesson, we will cover loops.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -   You have not officially learned how to "loop" over code to repeat function calls. However, if you already know about loops from somewhere else or feel like learning more, feel free to use them. If not, don't worry! Just call your `playRound` function 5 times in a row. In the next lesson, we will cover loops.
```

    *   At this point, you should be using `console.log` to display the results of each round and the winner at the end.
    *   Use the `prompt` function to get input from the user. [Read the docs here if you need to.](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt)
    *   Feel free to re-work your previous functions if you need to. Specifically, you might want to change the return value to something more useful.

>     *   Feel free to create more "helper" functions if you think they would be useful.

Reviewer: - `-` for list items per style guide 
- perhaps a more descriptive links for the MDN documentation about `prompt`

Author: Maybe?
>  To obtain the choice from the human user, use the `prompt` function. You can refer to the [official MDN docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt) to learn how to use the prompt function and its parameters.

Reviewer: I think we should also add the chapter :) 
> To obtain the choice from the human player, use the prompt method. You can refer to the [prompt() method documentation on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt) to learn how to use the prompt method and its parameters.

Feel free to simplify the last part after the link to your liking. It's probably too much prompt repetition.

### Introduction

> For this project, you'll create a console-only version of the grade-school game: **Rock Paper Scissors**. To learn more, or if you're unfamiliar with the game, read this [Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock%E2%80%93paper%E2%80%93scissors) or this [detailed step-by-step guide](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Rock,-Paper,-Scissors)

Reviewer: looking at this again, we should probably decide between "Rock Paper Scissors" or "rock paper scissors" and stay consistent 😁

> For this project, you'll create a console-only version of the grade-school game: **Rock Paper Scissors**. To learn more, or if you're unfamiliar with the game, read this [Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock%E2%80%93paper%E2%80%93scissors) or this [detailed step-by-step guide](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Rock,-Paper,-Scissors)

Author: I prefer the former.

For the changes, I prefer this concise version: 

> For this project, you'll create the grade-school game: **Rock Paper Scissors**, played entirely on the console. To learn more, or if you're unfamiliar with the game, read this [Wikipedia article about the rock paper scissors game]

<div class="lesson-note">
<h4>Student solutions</h4>

> Some students' solutions below include buttons, text, and other elements. Those elements form what is known as a Graphical User Interface (GUI). You'll add those elements—the GUI, in a later lesson. So remember to push your code to GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some students' solutions below include buttons, text, and other elements. Those elements form what is known as a Graphical User Interface (GUI). You'll add those elements, the GUI, in a later lesson. So remember to push your code to GitHub.
```

</div>

### Quick exercise before starting
1. Identify three ways to include JavaScript in a page.
2. Check if the page includes JavaScript:
   - Write `console.log("Hello World");` in JavaScript.

>    - Check if `console.log("Hello World");` logs in the browser's console.

Author: The duplication of the console logs gave me trouble; I didn't know what to do with them! :laughing:

### Problem solving approach

> Remember the [previous lesson on problem solving](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving) before diving into the project. Plan your solution—write the code—and then ensure the code works.

Author: I am not fond of the redundancy of:
>Since this is your first JavaScript program built from scratch

I believe it serves no purpose other than adding more text to read. The learner already knows that this is their first program (if it is). There is no point in telling them.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
Remember to commit early and often! To refresh your memory, check the [commit messages lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/paths/foundations/courses/foundations/lessons/commit-messages).

1. Create a new Git repository for your project.
1. Create a blank HTML document with a script tag.

>    1. We recommend writing the code in an external JavaScript file and linking it to the HTML file. You play this game entirely on the console, so don't worry about writing anything else in the HTML file.

Author: Great point about the link!

1. Your game plays against the computer—create a function to `return` the computer's choice:

>    1. Create a new function called `getComputerChoice`.
>    1. Make `getComputerChoice` *randomly* `return` one of the following string values: `"Rock"`, `"Paper"` or `"Scissors"`.
>    1. Remember to test what your function returns with [browser's developer tools](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-javascript-developer-tools) or `console.log`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Create a new function `getComputerChoice`.
   - Write the code to let `getComputerChoice` randomly `return` one of the following string values: "Rock", "Paper" or "Scissors".
   - Test that your function returns what you expect using `console.log` or [the browser developer tools](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-javascript-developer-tools) before you move on to the next step.
```

Good idea to put the dev tools here!

> 1. Your game plays turn by turn—create a function to take the human and computer choices, then `return` the round winner:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Your game plays turn by turn. Write a function named `playRound`, which takes the `playerSelection` and `computerSelection` to play a single round, and returns a winner announcement. 
```

>    1. Create a new function called `playRound`.
>    1. Define two parameters on `playRound`: `playerSelection` and `computerSelection`. Use those two parameters to take the human and computer choices as arguments.
>    1. Make `playRound` `return` a string value representing the round winner, such as: `"You Lose! Paper beats Rock"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Create a new function called `playRound`.
   - Define two parameters on `playRound`: `playerSelection` and `computerSelection`. Use those two parameters to pass the human and computer choices as arguments.
   - Make your function's `playerSelection` parameter case-insensitive (so users can input "rock", "ROCK", "RocK" or any other variation).
   - Write the code for your `playRound` function to `return` a string value representing the round winner, such as: "You Lose! Paper beats Rock".
   - example code:
```

- reworded some and added the case-insensitive part of the assignment back in.
- the below code should fit below the last list item, so indentation needs to increase. Feel free to reword the last list item to make it clear this is code to test if the function works.

   ~~~javascript
   function playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection) {
   // your code here!
   }
 
   const playerSelection = "rock";
   const computerSelection = getComputerChoice();

>    console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection));

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection));
```

the whole code block should go below last list item or place it back into it's own numbered list step to test our one round.

   ~~~

> 1. Your game plays for 5 rounds, and reports the winner or loser after the 5 rounds—create a function to represent the game:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Your game plays for 5 rounds. Write a function called `game` which will keep score for 5 rounds, utilizing your 'playRound' function, before it declares a winner:
```

>    1. Create a new function called `game`.
>    1. Get the human player choice using `prompt` function. To learn about `prompt`, check the [MDN docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt)
>    1. Put the previous function—`playRound`—inside `game`.
>    1. Play 5 rounds by calling `playRound` 5 times.
>    1. If you know about loops, use them. If not, don't worry! We cover loops in the next lesson. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Create a new function called `game`.
   - Get the human player choice using the `prompt` method. Read [this MDN article about prompts](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt) if you need to learn more about it.  
   - Put the previous `playRound` function inside `game`.
   - Play 5 rounds by calling `playRound` 5 times.
   - Re-work your previous functions or create more helper functions if you feel the need to. Specifically, you might want to change the return values to something more useful.
   - If you already know about loops, you can use them. If not, don't worry! We cover loops in the next lesson. 
```
- descriptive/accessible link 
- important hint about the return values added back in (needed for score and winner tracking)

### Introduction

For this project, you'll create the grade-school game: **Rock Paper Scissors** which will be played entirely in the console. To learn more, or if you're unfamiliar with the game, read this [Wikipedia article about the rock paper scissors game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock%E2%80%93paper%E2%80%93scissors) or this [detailed step-by-step guide about rock paper scissors.](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Rock,-Paper,-Scissors)

<div class="lesson-note">
<h4>Student solutions</h4>
Some students' solutions below include buttons, text, and other elements. Those elements form what is known as a Graphical User Interface (GUI). You'll add those elements, the GUI, in a later lesson. So remember to push your code to GitHub.
</div>

### Quick exercise before starting

1. Identify three ways to include JavaScript in a page.
2. Check if the page includes JavaScript:
   - Write `console.log("Hello World");` in JavaScript.
   - Check if "Hello World" is logged in the browser console once you open your webpage.

### Problem solving approach

> Since this is your first JavaScript program built from scratch, remember the [previous wise words from the problem-solving lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving). Before diving into this project, first plan or pseudocode your solution, then write the code, then ensure the code works.

Reviewer 2: [Proofreading] The last sentence seems to describe some steps, so I provided a suggestion on how to make it clearer. 
```suggestion
Since this is your first JavaScript program built from scratch, remember the [previous wise words from the problem-solving lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving). Before diving into this project, First, plan or pseudocode your solution. Next, write the code. Lastly, ensure the code works.
```

Reviewer: Thank you, we are still in the exploratory phase it seems so no final version to review yet.

   - Test that your function returns what you expect using `console.log` or [the browser developer tools](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-javascript-developer-tools) before you move on to the next step.
1. Your game plays turn by turn. Write a function named `playRound`, which takes the `playerSelection` and `computerSelection` to play a single round, and returns a winner announcement. 
   - Create a new function called `playRound`.
   - Define two parameters on `playRound`: `playerSelection` and `computerSelection`. Use those two parameters to pass the human and computer choices as arguments.
   - Make your function's `playerSelection` parameter case-insensitive (so users can input "rock", "ROCK", "RocK" or any other variation).
   - Write the code for your `playRound` function to `return` a string value representing the round winner, such as: "You Lose! Paper beats Rock".
   - example code:

   ~~~javascript
   function playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection) {
   // your code here!
   }
 
   const playerSelection = "rock";
   const computerSelection = getComputerChoice();
   console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection));
   ~~~

> 1. Your game plays for 5 rounds. Write a function called `game` which will keep score for 5 rounds, utilizing your 'playRound' function, before it declares a winner:

Reviewer 2: [Proofreading] Parts of this step were a bit unclear, so I gave some ideas on how to revise it. Check out my suggestions below:
```suggestion
1. Write a function called `game` which will keep score for 5 rounds and utilize your 'playRound' function before it declares a winner:
```

Reviewer: I hope you saw my last comment. We're still finding a direction for this so no need to review just yet. Thank you however :)

2. Check if the webpage includes JavaScript:
   - Write `console.log("Hello World")` in JavaScript.
   - Check if "Hello World" is logged in the browser console once you open your webpage.

### Problem solving approach
Remember the [previous wise words from the Problem Solving lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving) because this is your first JavaScript program built from scratch. Before you start this project, follow these steps for each step of the project:

1. Plan or pseudocode your solution.
2. Write the code.
3. Test your code to make sure it works.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
Remember to commit early and often! To refresh your memory, check out the [commit messages lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/paths/foundations/courses/foundations/lessons/commit-messages).

#### Step 1: initial structure

1. Create a new Git repository for your project.
1. Create a blank HTML document with a script tag.

It's best practice to link to an external JavaScript file inside this script tag. Using an external JavaScript file keeps your HTML file clean and organized.

> You don't have to write additional code in the HTML file. This game is played entirely on the console.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You don't have to write additional code in the HTML file. This game is played entirely in the console.
```

#### Step 2: get computer choice function

> Your game will be played against the computer. Create a function named `getComputerChoice` that randomly returns 'Rock', 'Paper' or 'Scissors':

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your game will be played against the computer. You will make a function that randomly returns 'Rock', 'Paper' or 'Scissors':
```
Removes unnecessary repetition.
`Create a function named getComputerChoice`

The instructions are already well-written in the bullet point list

1. Create a new function named `getComputerChoice`.
1. Write the code to let `getComputerChoice` randomly `return` one of the following string values: "Rock", "Paper" or "Scissors". 

>    - **Hint**: The [Math.random](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random) method returns a random number that's greater than or equal to 0 and less than 1. Think about how you can use this to conditionally return one of the multiple choices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - **Hint**: The [`Math.random`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random) method returns a random number that's greater than or equal to 0 and less than 1. Think about how you can use this to conditionally return one of the multiple choices. You may find the [`Math.floor`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/floor) method useful.
```

It could potentially be confusing if the learner doesn't know about the Math.floor method if they wanted to generate a random index.

Author: Technically, they shouldn't be using arrays as they haven't learned about it.

Reviewer 3: > Technically, they shouldn't be using arrays as they haven't learned about them.

Oh yeah, on point. No need to add that link here then

1. Test that your function returns what you expect using `console.log` or [the browser developer tools](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-javascript-developer-tools) before advancing to the next step.

#### Step 3: play round function

> Your game will be played round by round. Write a function named `playRound` that takes the human and computer player choices as arguments, plays a single round and returns a winner announcement:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Your game will be played round by round. You will make a function that takes the human and computer player choices as arguments, plays a single round and returns a winner announcement:
```

Again, there's no point saying the instructions twice

1. Test that your function returns what you expect using `console.log` or [the browser developer tools](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-javascript-developer-tools) before advancing to the next step.

#### Step 3: Write the logic to play a single round

Your game will be played round by round. You will write a function that takes the human and computer player choices as arguments, plays a single round and returns a winner announcement.

1. Create a new function named `playRound`.
1. Define two parameters for `playRound`: `playerChoice` and `computerChoice`. Use these two parameters to take the human and computer choices as arguments.
1. Make your function's `playerSelection` parameter case-insensitive so that players can input "rock", "ROCK", "RocK", or other variations.
1. Write the code for your `playRound` function to `return` a string value representing the round winner, such as: "You lose! Paper beats Rock".

Example code:

```javascript
function playRound(playerChoice, computerChoice) {
  // your code here!
}

const playerSelection = "rock";
const computerSelection = getComputerChoice();

console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection));
```

> #### Step 4: Write the logic to entire the play the game

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Step 4: Write the logic to play the entire game
```

### Introduction

For this project, you will create the game [Rock Paper Scissors](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Rock,-Paper,-Scissors). This game will be played entirely in the console.

<div class="lesson-note">
Some of the student solutions below contain buttons, text, and other elements. These elements are part of what is called a graphical user interface (GUI). You'll create the GUI in a later lesson. In the meantime, remember to commit your code to GitHub.
</div>

### Problem solving approach

> Remember the previous wise words from the [Problem Solving lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving) because this is your first JavaScript program built from scratch. Before you start this project, follow these steps for each step of the project:

Reviewer 4: More of a nit for how the current verbiage sounds:

```suggestion
Since this is the first JavaScript project being built from scratch, it's important to remember the wise words from the [Problem Solving lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving). Before you start this project, follow these steps for each step of the project:
```

Author: I like it.

1. Plan or pseudocode your solution.
1. Write the code.

> 1. Test your code to make sure it works.

Reviewer 4: If this is meant to echo the problem solving lesson, we probably want these items to be about understanding the problem, planning, writing pseudo code, and then dividing and conquering, no?

Maybe it's the wording leading into it, though. "Before you start this project" could maybe be removed, then just say, "For each step in this project, be sure to do the following:"

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
Remember to commit early and often! To refresh your memory, check out the [commit messages lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/paths/foundations/courses/foundations/lessons/commit-messages).

> #### Step 1: Initial structure

Reviewer 4: I do kind of like how we split projects up into more easily consumable pieces like this. One or two HTML/CSS projects in Foundations do something similar, though those use "Iteration 1/2/3/etc". I don't really have a strong preference either way, but we should decide on a consistent verbiage sooner than later (doesn't have to be in this PR)

Author: I'm personally not a fan of "iteration"; it doesn't sound very fitting. We'll discuss it later in a different PR.

1. Create a new Git repository for your project.
1. Create a blank HTML document with a script tag.
1. Check if the webpage includes JavaScript:
   - Write `console.log("Hello World")` in JavaScript.
   - Check if "Hello World" is logged in the browser console once you open your webpage.

It's best practice to link to an external JavaScript file inside this script tag. Using an external JavaScript file keeps your HTML file clean and organized.

You don't have to write additional code in the HTML file. This game is played entirely via the console.

> #### Step 2: Get computer choice function

Reviewer 4: Nit not a blocker, but maybe "Logic for getting the computer choice". Same would apply to the other sections e.g. "Logic for playing a round" etc. Fine keeping it as-is, too, so up to you.

Author: I'm fine with a more detailed heading.

> Your game will be played against the computer. You will make a function that randomly returns 'Rock', 'Paper' or 'Scissors':
> 
> 1. Create a new function named `getComputerChoice`.
> 1. Write the code so that `getComputerChoice` randomly `return` one of the following string values: "Rock", "Paper" or "Scissors".

Reviewer 4: Some small tweaks

```suggestion
Your game will be played against the computer. You will write a function that randomly returns "Rock", "Paper" or "Scissors".

1. Create a new function named `getComputerChoice`.
1. Write the code so that `getComputerChoice` will randomly `return` one of the following string values: "Rock", "Paper" or "Scissors".
```

Probably not a bad idea to provide function names for users for the first project in Foundations, to get them used to the idea of clean code better.

>    - **Hint**: The [Math.random](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random) method returns a random number that's greater than or equal to 0 and less than 1. Think about how you can use this to conditionally return one of the multiple choices.

Reviewer 4: Kind of feel like maybe this would be worth omitting, and just telling users to randomly return a string (and just say "This would be a great time to Google how to do so!" or something). That said, if this has been a pain point for users on Discord for this project I'm fine leaving this here.

Reviewer 5: It has actually been somewhat of a pain point, surprisingly enough.
It's been somewhat often where just mentioning `Math.random` gets people on the right tracks but despite a brief mention of it earlier in the curriculum, a lot of people seem to be stuck at what to even think about looking into here.

1. Test that your function returns what you expect using `console.log` or [the browser developer tools](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-javascript-developer-tools) before advancing to the next step.

#### Step 3: Play round function

> Your game will be played round by round. You will make a function that takes the human and computer player choices as arguments, plays a single round and returns a winner announcement:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Your game will be played round by round. You will write a function that takes the human and computer player choices as arguments, plays a single round and returns a winner announcement.
```

1. Create a new function named `playRound`.
1. Define two parameters for `playRound`: `playerChoice` and `computerChoice`. Use these two parameters to take the human and computer choices as arguments.
1. Make your function's `playerSelection` parameter case-insensitive so that players can input "rock", "ROCK", "RocK", or other variations.
1. Write the code for your `playRound` function to `return` a string value representing the round winner, such as: "You lose! Paper beats Rock".

Example code:

```javascript
function playRound(playerChoice, computerChoice) {
  // your code here!
}

const playerSelection = "rock";
const computerSelection = getComputerChoice();

console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection));
```

#### Step 4: Play game function

> Your game will play 5 rounds. Write a function named `playGame` that uses `playRound` to play 5 rounds, keeps score, and declares a winner at the end:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Your game will play 5 rounds. You will write a function named `playGame` that calls `playRound` to play 5 rounds, keeps score, and declares a winner at the end.
```

1. Create a new function named `playGame`.

> 1. Get the human player choice using the `prompt` method. Read this [MDN article about the prompt method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt) learn more about it.

Reviewer 4: Could also combine the link with the prompt method text:

```suggestion
1. Get the human player choice using the [`prompt` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt).
```

Author: I'm not sure about combining both as it looks are odd:
![image](https://github.com/TheOdinProject/curriculum/assets/36206278/bdf755c4-438a-4afd-8c04-c28a830a52b5)

Reviewer 5: Agreed that visually, at least for 2 word links (1 in backticks, 1 not), it really is odd to look at, and can easily be misinterpreted at 2 separate links at a glance.
At least with more words, the ambiguity is less.

Reviewer 4: Good call, I'm fine with it as-is then

> 1. Put the previous `playRound` function inside `playGame`.

Reviewer 4: Is the intent with this line here that users should literally move their playRound declaration inside of playGame, or just that they should call playRound inside of playGame? The wording makes it sound like the former which we probably don't want users to do. We could honestly probably just remove this step since we're already telling users to call playRound 5x on the next line.

Author: This depends on where we want the user to declare the scores. If the scores are declared inside the playGame, we won't be able to increment the scores inside the playRound. We can use the return of playRound to conditionally increment the winner's score variable declared in playGame, but this makes the project much more complicated.

So, I thought about those two simple ending outcomes we want to guide the Odinites to: https://gist.github.com/cakegod/2f5f63295ff606a1a729f67564cd7d43.

Reviewer 4: Another option would be declaring the scores as global variables, though yeah as the project is currently written and remains written here the intent seems to be that playGame houses the scores.

If you feel having the playRound moved inside of playGame is the better option I'm good with that. Maybe just tweak the verbiage of this instruction to, "Move your `playRound` function so that it's declared inside of the new `playGame` function"

1. Play 5 rounds by calling `playRound` 5 times.

>    - **Hint**: When you assign a function call to a variable, the return value of that function is assigned to the variable. Accessing the variable afterward will only provide the assigned value; it doesn't recall the function. You need to recall the choice functions to get new choices for each round.

Reviewer 4: If we're keeping the verbiage about loops it would make more sense to include it here

```suggestion
   - **Hint**: When you assign a function call to a variable, the return value of that function is assigned to the variable. Accessing the variable afterward will only provide the assigned value; it doesn't recall the function. You need to recall the choice functions to get new choices for each round.
   - If you already know about loops, you can use them. If not, don't worry! Loops will be covered in the next lesson.
```

### Introduction

> For this project, you will create the game **Rock Paper Scissors**. This game will be played entirely on the console. To learn more, or if you're not familiar with the game, read this [Wikipedia article](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock%E2%80%93paper%E2%80%93scissors) or this [detailed step-by-step guide.](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Rock,-Paper,-Scissors)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For this project, you will create the game [Rock Paper Scissors](https://www.wikihow.com/Play-Rock,-Paper,-Scissors). This game will be played entirely in the console.
```
Really don't think we need 2 separate links to explain RPS and its rules. This can be shortened as such, with the new link text being sufficiently descriptive (was planned as part of descriptive link changes already).

<div class="lesson-note">

> Some of the student solutions below contain buttons, text, and other elements. These elements are part of what is called a graphical user interface (GUI) You'll create the GUI in a later lesson. In the meantime, remember to commit your code to GitHub.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Some of the student solutions below contain buttons, text, and other elements. These elements are part of what is called a graphical user interface (GUI). You'll create the GUI in a later lesson. In the meantime, remember to commit your code to GitHub.
```

</div>

### Quick exercise before starting

1. Identify three ways to include JavaScript in a webpage.
1. Check if the webpage includes JavaScript:
   - Write `console.log("Hello World")` in JavaScript.

>    - Check if "Hello World" is logged in the browser console once you open your webpage.

Reviewer 5: This step feels a little out of place to me (the original too).
We have not yet instructed the learner to set anything up, only identify the 3 ways to include JS in a web page. Suddenly we're now saying "write JS and check if the web page runs it" - but we haven't made a web page yet.

I feel like the "identify three ways to include JS in a web page" bit might be better placed at the start of the assignment section itself, though I don't feel too strongly about this.

I do think the "test with a console log" but should at the very least come after we've instructed the learner to create a blank HTML with script tag. Though I wonder by this point, is it a necessary step? I don't feel strongly about its inclusion/exclusion but do thing it makes way more practical sense there and not before.

Author: Good point.
 
We can add the console log part as a third step in the initial structure step. I don't think "Identify three ways to include JavaScript in a webpage." step is necessary.

### Problem solving approach

> Remember the [previous wise words from the Problem Solving lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving) because this is your first JavaScript program built from scratch. Before you start this project, follow these steps for each step of the project:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Remember the previous wise words from the [Problem Solving lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-problem-solving) because this is your first JavaScript program built from scratch. Before you start this project, follow these steps for each step of the project:
```

1. Plan or pseudocode your solution.
1. Write the code.
1. Test your code to make sure it works.

### Assignment

<div class="lesson-content__panel" markdown="1">
Remember to commit early and often! To refresh your memory, check out the [commit messages lesson](https://www.theodinproject.com/paths/foundations/courses/foundations/lessons/commit-messages).

> #### Step 1: initial structure

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Step 1: Initial structure
```
Sentence case requires [capitalising the first word after a colon in a heading](https://apastyle.apa.org/style-grammar-guidelines/capitalization/sentence-case).

1. Create a new Git repository for your project.
1. Create a blank HTML document with a script tag.

It's best practice to link to an external JavaScript file inside this script tag. Using an external JavaScript file keeps your HTML file clean and organized.

You don't have to write additional code in the HTML file. This game is played entirely via the console.

> #### Step 2: get computer choice function

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Step 2: Get computer choice function
```

Your game will be played against the computer. You will make a function that randomly returns 'Rock', 'Paper' or 'Scissors':

1. Create a new function named `getComputerChoice`.
1. Write the code so that `getComputerChoice` randomly `return` one of the following string values: "Rock", "Paper" or "Scissors".
   - **Hint**: The [Math.random](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random) method returns a random number that's greater than or equal to 0 and less than 1. Think about how you can use this to conditionally return one of the multiple choices.
1. Test that your function returns what you expect using `console.log` or [the browser developer tools](https://www.theodinproject.com/lessons/foundations-javascript-developer-tools) before advancing to the next step.

> #### Step 3: play round function

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Step 3: Play round function
```

Your game will be played round by round. You will make a function that takes the human and computer player choices as arguments, plays a single round and returns a winner announcement:

1. Create a new function named `playRound`.

> 1. Define two parameters on `playRound`: `playerChoice` and `computerChoice`. Use those two parameters to take the human and computer choices as arguments.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Define two parameters for `playRound`: `playerChoice` and `computerChoice`. Use these two parameters to take the human and computer choices as arguments.
```

1. Make your function's `playerSelection` parameter case-insensitive so that players can input "rock", "ROCK", "RocK", or other variations.

> 1. Write the code for your `playRound` function to `return` a string value representing the round winner, such as: "You Lose! Paper beats Rock".

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Write the code for your `playRound` function to `return` a string value representing the round winner, such as: "You lose! Paper beats Rock".
```

Example code:

```javascript
function playRound(playerChoice, computerChoice) {
  // your code here!
}

const playerSelection = "rock";
const computerSelection = getComputerChoice();

console.log(playRound(playerSelection, computerSelection));
```

> #### Step 4: game function

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### Step 4: Play game function
```

> Your game will play 5 rounds. Write a function named `game` that uses `playRound` to play 5 rounds, keeps score, and declares a winner at the end:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Your game will play 5 rounds. Write a function named `playGame` that uses `playRound` to play 5 rounds, keeps score, and declares a winner at the end:
```
I think we should keep consistent with the way we name the functions. `playGame` makes more sense.

Author: Can't believe I missed the prefix. :eyes:

> 1. Create a new function named `game`.
> 1. Get the human player choice using the `prompt` method. Read this [MDN article about prompt method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt) learn more about it.
> 1. Put the previous `playRound` function inside `game`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Create a new function named `playGame`.
1. Get the human player choice using the `prompt` method. Read this [MDN article about the prompt method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/prompt) learn more about it.
1. Put the previous `playRound` function inside `playGame`.
```

1. Play 5 rounds by calling `playRound` 5 times.
   - **Hint**: When you assign a function call to a variable, the return value of that function is assigned to the variable. Accessing the variable afterward will only provide the assigned value; it doesn't recall the function. You need to recall the choice functions to get new choices for each round.

Re-work your previous functions or create more helper functions if necessary. Specifically, you may want to change the return values to something more useful.

> If you already know about loops, you can use them. If not, don't worry! Loops will be covered in the next lesson.

Reviewer 5: Not sure if it's worth mentioning this? Not a strong feeling, just wondering if there's really a point to mention it.
